So far, we've been creating
pages in our application, but
SvelteKit allows you to
create more than just pages.
You can also create API routes
by adding a server.js file,
instead of a page server.js file in
a page.svelte that exports functions
corresponding to HTTP methods like GET,
POST, PATCH, PUT, DELETE, and so on.
So this app here fetches data from a /roll
API route when you click the button.
And at the moment,
we haven't implemented that route, so
let's do that by adding
a src/routes/roll/+server.js file.
Let's click the New File icon,
roll/+server.js.
And from here, we can export functions
that correspond to the HTTP verbs.
In this case, we're gonna have a GET.
We get a random number between 1 and 6.
And we're gonna return
that as a response object.
We need to add a header
that tells the browser
that the response is of
Type': 'application/json'.
Now, just like request, this response
thing here is a web standard.
It's an object that you deal with when
you use the fetch API and other times.
And so inside our API route handlers,
our job is to take a request and
return one of these response objects.
You can find the documentation on MDM.
Now, since doing this sort of thing
is pretty common in an API route,
returning JSON, we actually have
a helper to do that for you.
I'm gonna import that helper now,
import  from 'svelte.js/kit';.
And then instead of returning all of this,
we're just gonna return json,
and then pass in the data.
So now, if we roll the dice,
we're gonna fetch the response,
which is the same response object that
we've just returned from the API route,
and we're gonna assign that to this local
value that gets shown when we've rolled.
Rolled a 1, not very good, try again.
Rolled a 4,
I'm gonna keep going until I get a 6.
Come on.
Is my logic bad?
I got a 6, finally.
All right,
we can move on to the next section.
Okay, so that was a GET handler, but you
can also add handlers that mutate data,
such as a POST handler.
Now, in most cases,
you shouldn't use a POST handler when
you could use a form action instead.
Form actions are gonna involve
less code for you to write, and
they also work without JavaScript, as
we've seen, making things more resilient,
But we can do it if we need to for
some reason.
So we're gonna revisit
the todo app from before and
we're gonna implement it this
time using an API route.
Aside the keydown event handler
of the input at the top here,
we're gonna post some data to the server.
The response is gonna be the result
of fetching the todo API route.
It's gonna be a POST call,
so add method: 'POST'.
The body is gonna be a stringified JSON
object containing the description.
And we're gonna add that content-type
application JSON header.
Okay, so when we hit the Enter
key inside this todo,
we're posting data to
a route that we haven't yet
created, so we need to create that now.
Inside the routes directory,
create todo folder.
Then inside there, create our server.js.
And this time, we're gonna define a POST
handler instead of a GET handler.
I'm gonna import that JSON helper
cuz we're gonna use it in a minute.
And we're gonna import the same
database object that we're
using inside the form action before,
import * as database from
'$lib/server/database.js', that's
this file over here.
Got a question from the crowd?
>> Are API endpoints open by default, or
do you need some sort of calls config
to open up for third-party users?
>> Yes, so that's a very good question.
SvelteKit will by default
lock down your API routes to
prevent people from posting
data from different sites.
So to protect your users from phishing
attacks and things like that,
where someone has a website that looks
like yours and posts some malicious data,
which then uses your cookies
to do something nefarious,
SvelteKit will look at the origin
header when a request comes in.
And if you're trying to mutate some data,
it will reject it by default.
You can disable that behavior and you can
add your own calls behavior if you want,
but the default behavior is to try and
keep your users safe.
Hopefully that answers the question.
>> Is that JSON utility just using
json.parse under the hood or
does it support begins?
>> It's just stringifying
the data that you're passing.
Yeah, it's basically just trigger
over returning a new response with
json.stringify, the same data.
Yeah, if you wanna pass rich data,
then you're gonna need to use your own
serialization and
your own deserialization on the plan.
All right, so
we've imported everything that we need,
it's time to add the handler itself.
First thing we'll do is get the JSON
that was sent from the browser,
using await request.json();.
We're gonna grab the userid
from the cookies.
And then we're gonna get the id
of the todo that we create so
that we can pass it back.
Passing the userid and the description.
Right, and that's gonna call
the createTodo function here,
which is gonna create a new ID,
just a random string of digits.
It'll add that to the in-memory database,
and
then it'll return the ID
to whatever called it.
Then we can take that ID,
send it back to the browser.
We're gonna pass in status: 201.
This time, 201 is the HTTP status code
that you use when you create a resource.
If you wanna learn more
about HTTP status codes,
which we'll use a few times in this
workshop, a site which is very helpful and
explains the difference between,
for example, an HTTP 200 and a 201.
No, there we go, 200, okay.
So back inside the event
handler on the page.
We need to do something with
the response that we just generated.
Grab the response.json,
In much the same way that we got
the request.json on the server.
And then we are gonna mutate the todos
array directly inside this handler.
And then, finally, the value gets reset so
that we can add a new todo.
Now, this mutation that we're doing here,
this is perhaps a little bit unorthodox.
You should only do this if the result of
that mutation is the same result that you
would get if you reloaded the page.
Otherwise, you'll get into
an inconsistent state.
But because we control this state,
it's a safe mutation to make.
So now, if I add a todo,
It's gonna add that to the list.